---
title: 'Micromagnetic Simulations: A New Frequency-Domain Approach'
date: 2023-05-04
permalink: /posts/2023/05/blog-post/
tags:
  - micromagnetic simulation
---

We have developed a novel frequency-domain micromagnetic simulation module based on COMSOL Multiphysics. This new approach promises to enhance the speed and accuracy of simulating magnetic dynamics, especially in the study of spin wave dispersions in magnonic systems.

Micromagnetic simulations are crucial for understanding the complex dynamics of magnetization in materials, governed by the Landau-Lifshitz-Gilbert (LLG) equation. Traditionally, most micromagnetic simulation packages, such as OOMMF and MuMax3, operate in the time domain. The new frequency-domain module we developed addresses these limitations by allowing for simultaneous calculations across multiple frequencies, significantly speeding up the simulation process. One of the standout features of this frequency-domain approach is its ability to accurately compute spin wave eigenmodes and dispersions, which are essential for understanding the behavior of magnetic materials in various applications. 

The advantages of this frequency-domain simulation technique are manifold. Firstly, it operates much faster than time-domain simulations, achieving results with greater efficiency due to its parallelization capabilities. This allows researchers to explore a wider range of frequencies without the lengthy computational time typically associated with time-domain methods. Secondly, the frequency-domain approach provides enhanced accuracy, particularly at high frequencies, where time-domain simulations often struggle due to constraints related to temporal step sizes and simulation durations. Moreover, the module can be integrated with COMSOL's existing capabilities, allowing for the inclusion of dipolar fields and other complex interactions, thereby broadening its applicability for different purposes. 

We have demonstrated the effectiveness of their module through three benchmark examples, showcasing its capability to handle complex magnetic textures, such as domain walls and skyrmions.

![Alt text {caption = (a) A magnetic thin film with a skyrmion at the center. (b) The skyrmion radius shrinks as the out-of-plane magnetic field strength increases. (c) Four peaks correspond to four localized soft modes of skyrmion. (d) The excitation spectrum of skyrmion with the perpendicular field varying from 900 to 2000 A/m.}](/files/news_images/skyrmion_spectrum.png)

The primary contributor to this work was Mr. Jiabin Zhang.

#### Reference:

1. Zhang, J., Yu, W., Chen, X. & Xiao, J. A frequency-domain micromagnetic simulation module based on COMSOL Multiphysics. [_AIP Advances_ 13, 055108 (2023)](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0143262).